MORE SECRETS TO TELL AND SHARES
THEM WITH "WIRED" MAGAZINE.
WE TALK TO THE JOURNALIST WHO
SPENT THREE DAYS WITH THE N.S.A.
LEAKER IN MOSCOW.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
AND I'M JWF.ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDL
AFGHANISTAN COME TOGETHER OR
FALL APART?
MARGARET WARNER TALKS TO JAMES
DOBBINS, WHO JUST STEPPED DOWN
AS THE U.S. SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE TO THE REGION.
>> Ifill: PLUS, REMEMBERING THE
SULTRY, SEDUCTIVE AND GLAMOROUS
SYMBOL OF OLD HOLLYWOOD, AWARD-
WINNING ACTRESS LAUREN BACALL.
TOGETHER AND BLOW, STEVE.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
NI.
>> Woodruff: THE UNITED STATES
MOVED CLOSER TODAY TO NEW MOVES
TO RESCUE THOUSANDS OF YAZIDI
REFUGEES IN NORTHERN IRAQ.
THEY'RE TRAPPED ON A MOUNTAIN,
SURROUNDED BY FIGHTERS OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
THE U.S. MILITARY IS ALREADY
AIR-DROPPING SUPPLIES, AND 130
AMERICAN ADVISORS HAVE ARRIVED
TO ASSESS THINGS.
TODAY, DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR BEN RHODES SAID THE
PRESIDENT IS AWAITING THEIR
RECOMMENDATIONS.
>> THERNEE
SOLUTION THAT GETS THAT
POPULATION TO A SAFE SPACE WHERE
THEY CAN RECEIVE MORE PERMANENT
ASSISTANCE.
WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT INVOLVES
U.S. TROOPS RE-ENTERING A COMBAT
ROLE IN IRAQ.
IT INVOLVES FRANKLY A VERY
DIFFICULT LOGISTICAL CHALLENGE
OF MOVING FOLKS WHO ARE IN
DANGER ON THAT MOUNTAIN INTO A
SAFER POSITION.
>> Woodruff: RHODES SUGGESTED
THE NEXT MOVE COULD INVOLVE A
RESCUE MISSION WITH THE HELP OF
KURDISH FORCES AND THE BRITISH.
MEANWHILE, THE YAZIDIS ARE
PLEADING FOR SAFE PASSAGE OUT OF
IRAQ.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> Reporter: THESE ARE THE
SURVIVORS OF AN ANCIENT
RELIGIOUS MINORITY WHICH UNTIL A
WEEK OR SO AGO MANY IN THE WEST
HAD R EVEN HEARD OF.
"WE ARE YAZIDIS," THEY CRIED.
OUR CHILDREN ARE DYING EVERYDAY,
ARE LIVING INT HURT ANYONE.
THIS HIGH SCHOOL PLAYGROUND
BECAUSE THEY HAVE NOWHERE ELSE
TO GO.
YESTERDAY, WE WATCHED THOUSANDS
STREAMING INTO IRAQI KURDISTAN
FOR SAFETY, THOUGH THE UN
RECKONS OVER 20,000 MAY STILL BE
TRAPPED AND AT RISK OF GENOCIDE.
NOFA BARACAT WALKED FOR 15 MILES
WITH HER BABY SON.
SHE TOLD ME THEN SHE KEPT HIM
ALIVE BY HAVING HIM SUCKLED MILK
BY A MOUNTAIN GOAT.
TODAY, WE FOUND HER FAMILY
LIVING IN THE HIGH SCHOOL.
THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE
GOING AND THEY ARE TERRIFIED OF
THE JIHADISTS WHO HOUNDED THEM
HERE.
>> ( translated ): THEY BURIED
PEOPLE ALIVE.
THEY'VE KILLED CHILDREN.
THEY SAID EITHER YOU WILL
CONVERT TO ISLAM OR WE WILL
SLAUGHTER YOU.
>> Reporter: AROUND A THOUSAND
YAZIDIS WILL BE SLEEPING HERE
TONIGHT AND FOR ALL OF THEM THE
DREAM OF A UNITED IRAQ HAS BEEN
SHATTERED FOREVER.
WHAT IS STRIKING WHEN YOU TALK
TO THESE YAZIDI REFUGEES IS THAT
NONE OF THEM HAVE TOLD US THEY
WILL EVER GO BACK TO THEIR
HOMES.
THEY SAY THAT IRAQ IS FINISHED
FOR THEM.
IT IS NOT A CASE OF BUILDING
REFUGEE CAMPS, THEY DON'T WANT
TO BE FED HERE, THEY WANT TO
LEAVE THE COUNTRY.
THIS AFTERNOON, YAZIDIS IN THIS
CAMP GAVE US THE SAME MESSAGE.
JUST BECAUSE FOREIGN HELICOPTERS
ARE POISED TO AIRLIFT THEIR
TRAPPED RELATIVES, DOES NOT THEY
WILL SETTLE HERE IN KURDISTAN ON
THE BORDERS OF A RUTHLESS SELF-
DECLARED ISLAMIC STATE.
YET BULLDOZERS ARE BUSY LEVELING
THE GROUND FOR FOUR MORE CAMPS.
AND BECAUSE NOBODY REALLY KNOWS
HOW MANY ARE DYING ON SINJAR
MOUNTAIN, NOBODY KNOWS HOW MANY
SURVIVORS TO EXPECT.
>> WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
WHILE ON THE POLITICAL FRONT,
PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL-MALIKI
INSISTED HE WON'T ACCEPT A NEW
PRIME MINISTER, EITHER
AL-ABADY, UNTIL IRAQ'S HIGHEST
COURT RULES ON THE ISSUE BUT
MALIKI'S POLITICAL PARTY LINED
ABADY.
>>> IN SYRIA, OPPOSITION GROUPS
REPORTED MILITANTS CAPTURED TWO
KEY TOWNS 30 MILES NORTHEAST OF
ALEPO.
IT FOLLOWED FIERCE CLASHES WITH
RIVAL REBEL FACTIONS.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S WORD THAT A
TEMPORARY TRUCE BETWEEN ISRAEL
AND HAMAS IS BEING EXTENDED JUST
AS IT WAS SET TO EXPIRE.
PALESTINIAN NEGOTIATORS SAID
LATE TODAY THE EXTENSION WILL
RUN FOR FIVE DAYS.
ISRAEL DID NOT IMMEDIATELY
COMMENT BUT THE ISRAELI MILITARY
SAID SEVERAL ROCKETS WERE WIRED
FROM GAZA AS THE NEWS BROKE.
>> Ifill: AUTHORITIES IN
FERGUSON, MISSOURI ARE URGING AN
END TO NIGHT-TIME PROTESTS OVER
THE POLICE SHOOTING OF AN
UNARMED BLACK TEENAGER.
LAST NIGHT, DEMONSTRATORS HELD A
LARGELY PEACEFUL EVENT, BUT
LATER, POLICE SHOT AND WOUNDED A
MAN WHO ALLEGEDLY PULLED A
HANDGUN.
THIS AFTERNOON, POLICE CHIEF
THOMAS JACKSOID
PREVENT VOILENCE AND ACCOMMODATE
THE PROTESTERS.
>> THEY HAVE A VERY STRONG
MESSAGE THEY WANT TO GET OUT,
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR ANSWERS, I
UNDERSTAND THAT, I UNDERSTAND
THE ANGER, BUT THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE THAT COME OUT AND, AFTER
DARK, IT DOES GET A LITTLE
DANGEROUS.
SO WE THINK IT'S BETTER FOR
PEACEFUL DEMONSTRATIONS TO OCCUR
DURING THE DAYLIGHT.
>> Ifill: THE CHIEF SAID HE
WILL NOT IDENTIFY THE POLICEMAN
WHO SHOT THE TEENAGER AT LEAST
FOR NOW.
>> Woodruff: THE SKIES OPENED
OVER NEW YORK'S LONG ISLAND
SUBURBS TODAY AND DUMPED A
SUMMER'S WORTH OF RAIN IN JUST A
FEW HOURS.
MORE THAN 13 INCHES FELL IN THE
TOWN OF ISLIP.
THE DELUGE TRANSFORMED ROADS
INTO RIVERS, SUBMERGING MANY
CARS IN SEVERAL FEET OF WATER.
SOME ROADS WERE STILL SHUT DOWN
DURING THE BUSY MORNING COMMUTE
SO CREWS COULD RESCUE STRANDED
DRIVERS.
>> WE'VE SEEN THAT BE W
A COUPLE CARS GET STUCK IN A
VERY SPECIFIC AREA.
THIS IS NOTHING LIKE ANYONE HAS
EVER SEEN HERE.
DOZENS AND DOZENS, HUNDREDS
ACROSS THE COUNTY, OF CARS BEING
STUCK IN MAJOR FLOODING.
>> Woodruff: AT LEAST ONE PERSON
DIED IN A WRECK AT THE HEIGHT OF
THE STORM.
THE SAME SYSTEM DROWNED PARTS OF
DETROIT EARLIER THIS WEEK.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL FROM
FIGHTING IN EASTERN UKRAINE HAS
SPIKED.
THE UNITED NATIONS ESTIMATED
TODAY AT LEAST 2,086 PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN KILLED SINCE MID-APRIL, UP
FROM 1,129 IN LATE JULY.
MEANWHILE, A RUSSIAN
HUMANITARIAN AID CONVOY WAS
PARKED IN SOUTHWESTERN RUSSIA
AWAITING PERMISSION TO CROSS THE
BORDER.
UKRAINIAN AUTHORITIES INSIST IT
COULD BE COVER FOR AN INVASION.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE
CHALLENGERS IN BRAZIL'S UPCOMING
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WAS KILLED
TODAY IN A PLANE CRASH.
EDUARDO CAMPOS WAS ON A SMALL
PLANE THAT WAS TRYING TO LAND IF
SANTOS.
CAMPOS WAS RUNNING THIRD IN THE
RACE TO UNSEAT PRESIDENT DILMA
ROUSSEFF, WHO'S SEEKING A SECOND
TERM.
THE ELECTION IS OCTOBER FOURTH.
>> Ifill: FORMER EGYPTIAN
PRESIDENT HOSNI MUBARAK DENIED
TODAY THAT HE ORDERED DEADLY
FORCE AGAINST PROTESTERS IN
2011.
MORE THAN 900 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN THE UPRISING THAT DEPOSED HIM
THAT YEAR.
MUBARAK, NOW 86, TESTIFIED IN A
CAIRO COURTROOM.
>> MOHAMED HAS ANY MUBARAK WHO
IS BEFORE YOU TODAY DID NOT
ORDER AT ALL THE KILLING OF
PROTESTERS OR THE SHEDDING OF
THE BLOOD OF EGYPTIANS AND I DID
NOT ISSUE AN OORDER TO CAUSE
CHAOS AND I NEVER ISSUED AN
ORDER TO CAUSE A SECURITY
VACUUM.
>> Ifill: MUBARAK WAS INITIALLY
FOUND GUILTY IN 2012, BUT HIS
CONVICTION WAS OVERTURNED LAST
YEAR.
HE'S NOW BEING RE-TRIED.
A FINAL VERDICT WILL BE ISSUED
IN LATE SEPTEMBER.
>> Woodruff: ON WALL STREET
TODAY, THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL
AVERAGE GAINED 91 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 16,651; THE NASDAQ ROSE
NEARLY 45 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
4,434; AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
ALMOST 13 POINTS, TO FINISH AT
1,946.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
EDWARD SNOWDEN'S LATEST SECRETS.
WHY SOME 300,000 PEOPLE IN THE
U.S. COULD LOSE THEIR HEALTH
INSURANCE.
FORMER U.S. SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE TO AFGHANISTAN
JIM DOBBINS.
AN APPRECIATION OF HOLLYWOOD
LEGEND, LAUREN BACALL.
AND, SAFEGUARDING DRINKING WATER
SUPPLIES FOR THIS AND FUTURE
GENERATIONS.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE NEW
REVELATIONS FROM A FRESH
INTERVIEW WITH N.S.A. LEAKER
EDWARD SNOWDEN.
THE EXTENSIVE PROFILE, IN
"WIRED" MAGAZINE, IS BASED ON
HOURS OF INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED
OVER THREE DAYS, INCLUDING AUDIO
THAT CAPTURES SNOWDEN'S VOICE.
>> WHAT I DID, WAS NOT TO
BENEFIT MYSELF.
I DIDN'T ASK FOR MONEY.
I GAVE THIS INFORMATION BACK TO
PUBLIC HANDS.
AND THE REASON THAT I DID THAT
WAS NOT TO GAIN A LABEL BUT TO
GIVE YOU BACK A CHOICE ABOUT THE
COUNTRY YOU WANT TO LIVE IN.
>> Ifill: SNOWDEN DISCLOSES THAT
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT RAN A TOP
SECRET CYBER-WAR PROGRAM CODE-
NAMED MONSTER-MIND.
HE SAID IT COULD ACCIDENTALLY
START A WAR.
AND HE REVEALS THAT, IN 2012,
N.S.A. HACKERS MISTAKENLY SHUT
DOWN ALL OF SYRIA'S INTERNET
SERVICE.
EDWARD SNOWDEN HAS BEEN LIVING
IN RUSSIA SINCE 2013.
LAST WEEK, THAT ASYLUM WAS
EXTENDED BY THREE YEARS.
JOURNALIST AND "WIRED"
CONTRIBUTOR JAMES BAMFORD HAS
WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ABOUT U.S.
SURVEILLANCE FOR DECADES, AND IS
THE AUTHOR OF THIS LATEST STORY,
WHICH APPEARS IN THE SEPTEMBER
ISSUE.
HE JOINS ME NOW FROM RIO DE
JANEIRO.
>> Ifill: JAMES BAMFORD, YOU
SAY IN YOUR PIECE YOU FEEL LIKE
OFF KINSHIP WITH EDWARD SNOWDEN.
WHY DIDN'T HE TALK TO YOU?
>> WELL, GWEN, NICE BEING ON THE
PROGRAM.
THE REASON I THINK WE HAD A BIT
OF A KINSHIP IS, INTERESTINGLY,
I WORKED ALSO FOR N.S.A. IN
HAWAII WHEN I WAS IN THE NAVY.
I WAS ASSIGNED TO A UNIT THAT
WAS BASICALLY PART OF THE
N.S.A., AND I WORKED THERE
DURING THE VIETNAM WAR FOR
BASICALLY TWO YEARS OUT OF THREE
YEARS I SPENT IN THE NAVY.
THEN AFTER I LEFT THE ACTIVE
DUTY AND WAS IN THE RESERVES
WHILE I WAS IN LAW SCHOOL, I
DISCOVERED AT ONE OF THE
LISTENING POSTS THEY WERE
EAVESDROPPING ON U.S. CITIZENS.
SO I BLEW THE WHISTLE ON THAT TO
THE CHURCH COMMITTEE AND
ACTUALLY TESTIFIED IN CLOSED
SESSION BEFORE THE CHURCH
COMMITTEE.
SO THESE WERE SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT I THINK WE HAD A BIT IN
COMMON.
HE WAS FAR MORE OF A
WHISTLEBLOWER THAN I EVER WAS
AND HE WAS FAR MORE INVOLVED
WITH N.S.A. THAN I EVER WAS, BUT
THERE WERE THESE CONNECTIONS WE
DID HAVE.
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN WIDELY
REPORTED 1.7 BILLION DOCUMENTS
WERE TAKEN BY EDWARD SNOWDEN IN
SOME MANNER.
DO YOU HAPPEN TO KNOW WHETHER HE
KNOWS WHAT'S IN ALL THOSE
DOCUMENTS, WHETHER THERE'S
INDEED A SECOND LEAKER AS HAS
BEEN REPORTED?
>> THERE WAS 1.7 MILLION
DOCUMENTS, BUT HIS COMMENTS WERE
REALLY EXTRAORDINARY, TO ME.
HE SAID HE ACTUALLY LEFT
BASICALLY BREAD CRUMBS.
HE LEFT SOME CLUES TO INDICATE
WHICH DOCUMENTS HE ACTUALLY SAW
AND WHICH DOCUMENTS HE ACTUALLY
COPIED SO THAT THE N.S.A., WHEN
THEY WENT BACK AND DID AN AUDIT,
WOULD BE ABLE TO DETERMINE THAT
HE WAS A WHISTLEBLOWER -- IN
OTHER WORDS, TAKING DOCUMENTS
THAT INDICATED THEY WERE
INVOLVED IN DOMESTIC
EAVESDROPPING, FOR EXAMPLE, AS
OPPOSED TO DOCUMENTS DEALING
WITH NORTH KOREA OR RUSSIA OR
CHINA OR WHATEVER.
SO HE DIDN'T SAY HOW MANY
DOCUMENTS, BUT HE SAID THERE
WERE CONSIDERABLY FEWER THAN THE
1.7 MILLION THAT THE N.S.A. HAS
ALLEGED, AND THAT 1.7 MILLION IS
BASICALLY BASED ON THE DOCUMENTS
HE MAY HAVE AT ONE POINT SEEN,
BUT CERTAINLY NOT THE DOCUMENTS
THAT HE COPIED AND BY THEM
MISSING THE CLUES HE LEFT, WE
AREN'T ABLE TO TELL WHICH HE SAW
AND WHICH HE COPIED.
>> Ifill: AND WHICH REPORTS
COME FROM HIS DOCUMENTS AND
WHICH ONES COME FROM POSSIBLY
SOMEONE SNELLS.
SOMEONE -- SOMEONE ELSE?
>> WELL, THAT'S THE INDICATION.
EDWARD SNOWDEN INDICATED TO ME,
THE N.S.A. CERTAINLY HAS A
PROBLEM, THAT THINGS ARE STILL
WALKING.
HE SAID THAT'S A MAJOR PROBLEM
TO THE U.S. SINCE THE N.S.A. HAS
SO MUCH OF AMERICAN
COMMUNICATIONS -- TELEPHONE
CALLS, E-MAILS AND SO FORTH --
AND IF THERE IS A SECOND LEAKER,
WHICH APPARENTLY THERE IS, AND
CERTAINLY THE EVIDENCE INDICATES
THAT, AND MAYBE HAVING BEEN
INSPIRED BY EDWARD SNOWDEN, IT'S
CERTAINLY A MAJOR PROBLOR
N.S.A., IF THEY THOUGHT THEY HAD
A PROBLEM WITH SNOWDEN, NOW THEY
HAVE A PROBLEM WITH SOMEONE ELSE
THERE.
>> Ifill: WHAT KIND OF LIFE IS
SNOWDEN LEADING IN EXILE THESE
DAYS?
>> HE SEEMS FAIRLY COMFORTABLE
IN HIS LIFE.
THE THREE DAYS I SPENT WITH HIM
HE NEVER COMPLAINED ABOUT HIS
LIFE THERE.
I THINK HE'S ADAPTED TO THE LIFE
IN MOSCOW QUITE WELL.
MOSCOW IS NOT YOUR GRANDFATHER'S
RUSSIA UNDE.
HE JUST HAD HIS VISA EXTENDED
ANOTHER THREE YEARS.
I THINK HE SAID OBVIOUSLY HE
WOULD MUCH RATHER BE LIVING IN
THE U.S. WITH HIS FAMILY AND SO
FORTH, BUT I THINK HE'S ADAPTING
QUITE WELL.
>> HE EXPECTS TO BE HACKED AT
ANY MOMENT BY THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, HE CERTAINLY THINKS
THEY'RE CERTAINLY TRYING TO HACK
INTO HIM.
HE SAYS THAT HE THINKS IT WILL
BE INEVITABLE THAT THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO HACK INTO HIM AT SOME
POINT.
HE DOESN'T THINK THEY'VE
GEOLOCATED HIM -- IN OTHER
WORDS, FOUND OUT EXACTLY WHERE
HE IS AT ANY PARTICULAR TIME IN
MOSCOW.
HE TAKES HIS BATTERY OUT OF HIS
CELL PHONE.
HE'S GOING PLACES.
HE'S VERY CAREFUL.
BUT HE DOES THINK AT SOME POINT
N.S.A. WILL PROBABLY BE ABLE TO
UNDERSTAND WHO HE'S TALKING TO,
NOT NECESSARILY WHAT HE'S SAYING
BECAUSE OF ENCRYPTION, BUT WHO
HE'S COMMUNICATING WITH AND THAT
TROUBLES HIM.
>> Ifill: DO HE AND HIS
SUPPORTERS HAVE CONCERN ABOUT
AMERICANS MOVING INTEREST IN HIS
CAUSE?
>> YEAH, HE WAS QUITE CONCERNED
THAT AT SOME POINT THE
INFORMATION THAT WAS COMING OUT
WILL PRETTY MUCH BE PUT ON THE
BACK PAGES, PEOPLE WON'T PAY
ATTENTION TO IT ANYMORE, SORT OF
COMPARE IT TO A WAR IN THE SENSE
THAT FIVE PEOPLE BEING KILLED IS
A HEADLINE, 1,000 PEOPLE BEING
KILLED A MONTH LATER IS A BACK
PAGE.
SO IT'S A PROBLEM OF BECOMING
SORT OF NUMBED, OR THIS WHOLE
PROBLEM OF BOILING FROGS WHERE A
FROG IS IN THE WATER AND THE
HEAT GETS TURNED UP SLOWLY SO
THAT TH THE FROG DOESN'T KNOW IS
BEING BOILED.
SO IT'S A PROBLEM HE'S CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT THE PUBLIC WILL STOP
PAYING ATTENTION TO THE LEAKS
AND REVELATIONS AT SOME POINT.
>> FOR THAT REASON HE POSES WITH
AN AMERICAN FLAG ON THE WOOFER
OF "WIRED" MAGAZINE THIS MONTH.
JAMES BAMFORD, THANK YOU FOR
YOUR REPORTING, TALK TO YOU
SOON.
>> Woodruff: THERE
COMPLICATIONS WITH THE
HEALTHCARE LAW AND INSURANCE
COVERAGE.
ROUGHLY EIGHT MILLION PEOPLE
SIGNED UP THROUGH THE HEALTHCARE
EXCHANGES.
BUT IT'S BEEN CLEAR THIS SUMMER
THERE ARE MANY CASES OF
DISCREPANCIES WITH INFORMATION
OF THE NEWLY ENROLLED,
COMPLICATING THEIR ELIGIBILITY
IN SOME CASES.
IMMIGRATION STATUS IS NOW A PART
OF THIS.
YESTERDAY, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WARNED MORE THAN
300,000 PEOPLE COULD LOSE
COVERAGE IF THEY CAN'T SHOW
PROOF THEY ARE U.S. CITIZENS OR
LEGAL RESIDENTS.
REPORTER LOUISE RADNOFSKY IS
COVERING THIS FOR THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL.
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: LOUISE, WHO ARE
THE PEOPLE BEING QUESTIONED OR
GETTING THE LETTERS?
>> ORIGINALLY ABOUT A MILLION
PEOPLE FOR WHOM THE SITE
COULDN'T VERIFY THEY WERE IN THE
UNITED STATES LEGALLY, WHITTLED
DOWN TO ABOUT 310,000 PEOPLE WHO
THEY SAY THEY HAVEN'T HEARD FROM
AVENUE BEING ASKED MULTIPLE
TIMES TO SEND IN INFORMATION.
>> Woodruff: WHAT CAUSED THIS
TO BUBBLE TO THE SURFACE?
>> THERE APPEARED TO BE A
STANDING GLITCH IN THE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM IN WHICH IT
WAS DIFFICULT TO ASCERTAIN DATA
SUPPLIED BY PEOPLE WHO WERE
RESIDENTS IN THE UNITED STATES
OR NATURALIZED AND NOT BORN
HERE.
ESSENTIALLY THE DATA FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
WASN'T WORKING TO GET THEIR
INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN TIME.
>> Woodruff: SO THEY LITERALLY
COULDN'T VERIFY WHAT PEOPLE WERE
SAYING, IS THAT IT?
>> THEY COULDN'T.
AT ONE POINT PEOPLE COULDN'T
ENTER DOCUMENT NUMBERS THAT
EXISTED, SO THEY JUST SORT OF
TRIED TO PROGRESS AS MUCH AS
THEY COULD AND SUPPLIED
INFORMATION LATER.
>> REMIND ME FOR TELL JIBILITY
REQUIREMENTS FOR PEOPLE TO SIGN
UP FOR HEALTHCARE UNDER THE
PROGRAM, THEY HAD TO BE WHAT?
>> THEY HAD TO BE LEGAL IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THIS WAS THE ISSUE AS THE LAW
WAS DEBATED.
AS A RESULT, UNAUTHORIZED
IMMIGRANTS ARE NOT ONLY NOT
ELIGIBLE FOR BENEFITS, THEY'RE
NOT ABLE TO SHOP ON
healthcare.gov at all.
>> Woodruff: FOR IN M PEOPLE,
THEY'VE CLEARED IT UP.
FOR 300,000 PEOPLE, THEY HAVEN'T
HEARD BACK.
WHAT DO THOSE PEOPLE HAVE TO DO.
>> THOSE PEOPLE HAVE UNTIL
SEPTEMBER 5 TO MAIL IN THE
INFORMATION TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
IF THEY DON'T, THEY WOULD LOSE
THEIR COVERAGE ENTIRELY.
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT TAX
COVERAGE.
THEIR PLANS WOULD BE TERMINATED
BY THE INSURANCE COMPANY.
>> SO THEY WERE PREPARED TO SHUT
THEM OFF EVEN AFTER A YEAR OR
LESS THAN A YEAR OF COVERAGE.
>> THEY ARE.
IT'S SOMETHING IMMIGRANT
ACTIVISTS WERE CONCERNED ABOUT.
THEY NEVER LIKED THE PROVISION
IN THE FIRST PLACE BUT THEY SAY
THE GOVERNMENT MIGHT BE MOVING
HASTILY HERE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO PEOPLE IN
THE ADMINISTRATION SAY ABOUT
THIS?
DO THEY HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT
MOST OF THESE PEOPLE ARE ILLEGAL
THAT THEY'RE NOT CITIZENS OR NOT
HERE LEGALLY OR DO THEY THINK
THERE ARE JUST HONEST MISTAKES?
>> THEY SAY THEY'RE IN A
POSITION TO PROCESS THROUGH AND
FIND OUT WHETHER PEOPLE WHO
SUBMITTED INFORMATION DO HAVE
DATA ON FILE AND THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT CAN VERIFY WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING AND THAT'S WHY
THEY'RE GOING TO THESE MEASURERS
BUT THEY SAY THEY NEED TO HEAR
FROM THE PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: SO THEY HONESTLY
DON'T KNOW?
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?
>> IT'S A DATA MATCHING ERROR,
THEY DESCRIBE IT AS.
>> Woodruff: SO WE STARTED OUT
SAYING 2 BILLION,PEOPLE ARE
BEING INVESTIGATED FOR SOME SORT
OF DISCREPANCY.
THIS IS A BIG NUMBER OF THE8 MI.
>> RIGHT, AND IT GETS TO THE
IDEA THERE WERE A NUMBER OF
PLACE IN healthcare.gov that
went beyond the obvious ones at
the outset where people just
couldn't get through the system
that was seizing up on them.
THE UNDERLYING DATA IS TOUGH TO
VERIFY BECAUSE YOU HAVE PEOPLE
WITH COMPLICATED CIRCUMSTANCES
LIKE PEOPLE NOT BORN IN THE
UNITED STATES OR THEIR INCOME
HAS CHANGED.
THAT'S THE OTHER PEOPLE AMONG
THE 2 MILLION.
WHAT THEY EARNED IN 2012 IS NOT
WHAT THEY EXPECT TO EARN IN
2014.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENS WHEN PEOPLE
ARE SUDDENLY LOOKING TO BUY
INSURANCE ON THEIR OWN.
>> Woodruff: HOW IS THAT
RECONCILED?
>> AGAIN, THE ADMINISTRATION IS
ASKING FOR MORE INFORMATION.
BUT BECAUSE IT'S ABOUT THEIR TAX
CREDITS AND NOT COVERAGE
ENTIRELY, THERE IS AN
EXPECTATION IT WILL GET SORTED
OUT AROUND TAX SEASON.
THE REPUBLICANS AREN'T HAPPY
ABOUT THAT, BUT THAT'S WHEN IT
WILL BE FOUND OUT.
>> Woodruff: THE RENEWAL
PROCESS HAS TO TAKE PLACE.
IS THE ADMINISTRATION EXPECTING
IT THE TO GO SMOOTHLY?
>> THE ADMINISTRATION DECIDED TO
AUTOMATICALLY RENEW POLICIES FOR
PEOPLE IF ASKED TO CHANGE IN
SOME WAY BECAUSE IT WAS WORRIED
ABOUT A BUNCH OF PEOPLE FALLING
OUT OF THE SYSTEM.
THE POLICIES BEING RENEWED ARE
PEOPLE WHO GENERALLY WERE ABLE
TO GET LO THE SYSTEM THE FIRST
TIME AND DON'T HAVE THESE
PROBLEMS WITH THE APPLICATION
THAT ARECIES PROPORTIONATE TO
IMMIGRANTS.
>> Woodruff: THEY DON'T EXPECT
TO HAVE A PROBLEM.
>> IMMIGRANT GROUPS ARE
CONCERNED THERE ARE ONGOING
PROBLEMS THAT PERSIST THROUGH
THE NEXT ENROLLMENT ESPECIALLY
FOR THESE PEOPLE WHERE THE
ADMINISTRATION IS KEEN ON MAKING
SURE IF THEY'RE IN THE UNITED
STATES ILLEGALLY IF THEY'RE
SIGNED UP FOR COVERAGE.
>> Woodruff: LOUISE RADNOFSKY,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO A LOOK AT THE
FUTURE OF AFGHANISTAN AND THE
LESSONS OF IRAQ.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: FOR THE PEOPLE OF
AFGHANISTAN, THESE NEXT FEW
MONTHS MAY DECIDE IF THERE'S A
HOPEFUL FUTURE OR A DESCENT BACK
INTO CHAOS.
ON THE POLITICAL FRONT ELECTIONS
WERE HELD TO REPLACE PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI, BUT THERE'S NOCLE.
FORMER FINANCE MINISTER ASHRAF
GHANI LED THE JUNE RUN-OFF
AGAINST FORMER FOREIGN MINISTER
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH.
BUT HE WON FIRST ROUND, AND HAS
NOW CHARGED FRAUD.
AMID AN AUDIT OF THE VOTES,
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
HAS MADE TWO EMERGENCY TRIPS TO
KABUL TO TRY TO HOLD THE
SITUATION TOGETHER, AND GET THE
CANDIDATES TO AGREE TO SHARE
POWER AFTER THE RESULTS WHOEVER
WINS.
BUT GHANI CAST DOUBT ON THAT
YESTERDAY.
>> THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
FACILITATION AND ARBITRATION.
THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE IN TERMS
OF AGREEING TO THE FRAMEWORK BUT
THE FRAMEWORK WAS NOT A DOCUMENT
PREPARED FOR SIGNING.
>> Reporter: THE STAKES ARE HUGE
FOR CONTINUING U.S. AND NATO
MILITARY AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT
AFTER THE DECEMBER 2014 DEADLINE
FOR WITHDRAWAL.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID IN MAY HE'S
WILLING TO KEEP 9,800 U.S.
TROOPS AFTER THIS YEAR, BUT
WITHDRAW THEM ALL BY END THE END
OF 2016.
>> AMERICAN PERSONNEL WILL BE IN
AN ADVISORY ROLE.
WE WILL NO LONGER PATROL AFGHAN
CITIES OWS OR
VALLEYS.
THAT IS A TASK FOR THE AFGHAN
PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: BUT A NEW AFGHAN
PRESIDENT WOULD HAVE TO SIGN THE
DEAL ALLOWING THOSE TROOPS TO
STAY.
AND THIS WEEK, THE HEAD OF NATO
WARNED TIME IS RUNNING OUT.
MEANWHILE, THE TALIBAN IS
STAGING NEW ATTACKS IN KABUL AND
ELSEWHERE.
VETERAN DIPLOMAT JAMES DOBBINS
JUST RETIRED FROM HIS SECOND
STINT AS THE SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR AFGHANISTAN
AND PAKISTAN.
HE PRESIDED OVER THE REOPENING
OF THE U-S EMBASSY IN KABUL IN
2001.
IT WAS THE LATEST AND LAST OF A
CAREER AS POINT-MAN FOR POST-
CONFLICT SITUATIONS, IN SOMALIA,
HAITI, BOSNIA AND KOSOVO, AND
THEN AFGHANISTAN.
AMONG HIS BOOKS, "AMERICA'S ROLE
IN NATION-BUILDING: FROM GERMANY
TO IRAQ."
HE'S NOW BACK AT THE RAND
CORPORATION, WHERE WE SPOKE
TODAY.
LET'S START WITH AFGHANISTAN
WHERE YOU SPENT SO MUCH OF YOUR
CAREER DESPITE TWO INTERVENTIONS
BY SECRETARY KERRY THAT ELECTION
IS STILL DEADLOCKED.
WHAT ARE THE CONSEQUENCES IF
THIS ISN'T RESOLVED SOON?
>> WELL I THINK THE CONSEQUENCES
COULD BE A SCHISM WITH TWO
PEOPLE CLAIMING TO BE PRESIDENT
AND A THREE-WAY CONFLICT BETWEEN
TWO FACTIONS AND THE TALIBAN.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S IN EITHER
OF THE CANDIDATES INTERESTS.
I THINK THEY BOTH RECOGNIZE THAT
AND THEY'LL WORK TO AVOID IT.
BUT THERE ARE FORCES WITHIN BOTH
OF THEIR CAMPAIGNS, IF YOU WILL,
THAT PUSH THEM IN THAT
DIRECTION.
>> Reporter: WHAT DOES THIS SAY
ABOUT THE EFFICACY OF OUR MORE
THAN TEN YEAR EFFORT THERE, THAT
THE POLITICAL LEADERSHIP ISN'T
UP TO THIS TEST?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK WE HAVE TO
PUT THIS IN SOME PERSPECTIVE.
WE'VE BEEN IN AFGHANISTAN FOR
TEN YEARS, AFGHANISTAN SPENT THE
PREVIOUS 30 YEARS IN THE MIDST
OF A CIVIL WAR AND IT'S MADE
REMARKABLE PROGRESS OVER THE
LAST TEN.
IT'S NOT YET A JEFFERSONIAN
DEMOCRACY.
INDEED THE DEMOCRACY IS
FALTERING BUT THEY DID HAVE AN
ELECTION, MILLIONS TURNED OUT
AND THERE WAS GENUINE
ENTHUSIASM, AND THEY ARE TRYING
TO WORK THEIR WAY THROUGH A
PROCESS WHICH WILL PRODUCE A
LEGITIMATE RESULT.
>> Reporter: AND THEN WITH THE
US DRAWING DOWN TO 9,800 TROOPS
BY THE END OF THE YEAR,
ULTIMATELY ZERO BY 2016, DO YOU
THINK THAT THE AFGHAN SECURITY
FORCES ARE UP TO THE JOB OF
MAINTAINING SECURITY THEIR OWN?
>> I THINK IF WE GET A
LEGITIMATE OUTCOME TO THE
ELECTION THAT'S WIDELY ACCEPTED
BY THE AFGHAN PEOPLE BY THEIR
NEIGHBORS AND BY THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, IF
INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE THUS
CONTINUES TO FLOW.
THEN I THINK THE AFGHAN SECURITY
FORCES WILL CONTINUE TO IMPROVE
AS THEY HAVE BY EVERYONE'S
STANDARD OVER THE LAST PERIOD OF
YEARS.
THE TALIBAN WILL BE KEPT AT BAY
AND THE COUNTRY'S SOCIAL,
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL PROGRESS
WILL BE FURTHER CONSOLIDATED.
>> Reporter: BUT THAT WAS
PREDICATED BY SOME PRETTY BIG
IFS, SENATORS JOHN McCAIN AND
OTHERS HAVE SAID THAT BY
ANNOUNCING TROOP WITHDRAWAL AT
THE END OF 2016 THAT ESSENTIALLY
IT'S INVITING FIRST OF ALL THE
POLITICAL LEADERS REVERT TO
THEIR OLD WAYS AND THE TALIBAN
TO JUST KEEP MAKING MOVEMENTS,
BIDE THEIR TIME.
>> I'VE DONE A LOT OF WORK ON
COUNTRIES LIKE AFGHANISTAN.
MY VIEW IN THESE STABILITY
OPERATIONS MORE IS BETTER.
MORE TIME, MORE MONEY, MORE
TROOPS PRODUCE BETTER RESULTS SO
IF I WAS ONLY RESPONSIBLE FOR
AFGHANISTAN I'D WANT MORE TROOPS
I'D WANT MORE TIME I'D WANT MORE
MONEY BUT THE PRESIDENT AND THE
CONGRESS BOTH HAVE WIDER
RESPONSIBILITIES AND THEY HAVE
TO MEASURE THEIR COMMITMENT IN
AFGHANISTAN AGAINST THE NEEDS OF
A LOT OF OTHER CRISES.
AND DOMESTIC CONSTITUENCY THAT
WANTS SOME RECONSTRUCTION AT
HOME SO I THINK THAT IT WAS A
PERFECTLY RATIONAL DECISION TO
LIMIT OUR COMMITMENT WITHOUT
ABRUPTLY WITHDRAWING.
THAT SAID WHETHER OR NOT IT
COULD SUCCEED, WHETHER
AFGHANISTAN CAN STAY ON A
POSITIVE TRACK, WHICH IT'S BEEN
ON FOR THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS,
THROUGH THE DIMINUTION OF OUR
PRESENCE AND ITS ULTIMATE
REMOVAL IS STILL AN OPEN
QUESTION.
I WOULD NOTE THAT 2017 WILL HAVE
A NEW ADMINISTRATION AND THEY'LL
HAVE TO RE EXAMINE THESE ISSUES
AND MAKE THEIR OWN DECISIONS.
>> Reporter: NOW IF YOU LOOK AT
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN IRAQ WHERE
FOUR YEARS AGO THE EXPECTATION
WAS, MUCH AS IT IS HERE IN
AFGHANISTAN, THHE
READY TO TAKE EVERYTHING ON
THEIR OWN AND YOU SEE IT'S ALL
UNRAVELING, WHAT ARE THE LESSONS
OF THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THE
BIGGEST LESSON OF IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN WAS THAT IT WAS
FOOLISH TO INVADE IRAQ BEFORE
YOU FINISHED IN AFGHANISTAN.
BEFORE YOU FINISHED YOUR
PROCESS, THE PROCESS OF
RECONSTRUCTING AFGHANISTAN AND
BUILDING A SELF-SUFFICIENT
POLITY THERE IN 2003 WHEN WE
INVADED IRAQ AND WE OVERBURDENED
OURSELVES.
WE SIMPLY WEREN'T CAPABLE OF
MANNING AND FINANCING THESE TWO
AT THE SAME TIME.
I THINK THE LESSON OF IRAQ IS
THAT NATION BUILDING ISHAT INVAA
COUNTRY AND OVERTHROWING A
REGIME IS COMPARATIVELY EASY FOR
A COUNTRY AS POWERFUL AS THE
UNITED STATES, BUT MAKING SURE
THAT SOMETHING TAKES ITS PLACE
IN AN ENDURING FASHION IS AN
EXPENSIVE TIME CONSUMING AND
VERY DIFFICULT ENTERPRISE THAT
HAS TO BE UNDERTAKEN WITH
EXTREME CAUTION.
WE HAVE SUCCEEDED WE'VE
SUCCEEDED IN BOSNIA WE SUCCEEDED
IN KOSOVO WE'VE SUCCEEDED IN
PANAMA AND OF COURSE WE
SUCCEEDED IN GERMANY AND JAPAN
AFTER THE SECOND WORLD WAR IN
SOUTH KOREA AFTER THE KOREAN
WORLD SO IT'S NOT AS IF IT NEVER
SUCCEEDS BUT IT IS TOUGH IT IS
EXPENSIVE AND SHOULD ONLY BE
EMBARKED ON AFTER CAREFUL
THOUGHT.
>> Reporter: 9/11 DID TEACH US
THAT IF YOU LET SOMETHING FESTER
OVERSEAS IT CAN COME BACK AND
HIT THE UNITED STATES, YET WHEN
WE HAVE TRIED TO INTERVENE IN
THE ISLAMIC WORLD SO FAR IT HAS
NOT BEEN HUGELY SUCCESSFUL.
HOW DO YOU TRY TO SQUARE THAT
CIRCLE?
YET WHEN WE TRY TO INTERVENE WE
OFTEN MAKE A MESS OF IT.
SO HOW DO YOU SQUARE THAT
CIRCLE, HOW DO YOU ANSWER THAT
CONUNDRUM FOR FE
>> I THINK WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL
DISCRIMINATE ABOUT WHERE WE
INTERVENE BUT WE HAVE TO AVOID
GOING IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION
OF SAYING SORT OF NEVER AGAIN.
BECAUSE THE FACT IS THAT A
NUMBER OF THESE INTERVENTIONS DO
SERVE THEIR PURPOSE THEY DO
ENHANCE OUR SECURITY IN THE CASE
OF THE MIDDLE EAST.
CLEARLY WE OVERBURDENED
OURSELVES BY INVADING IRAQ ONLY
A COUPLE OF YEARS AFTER GOING
INTO AFGHANISTAN.
BEFORE WE'VE STABILIZED THAT
COUNTRY.
THE RESULT WAS TO DEPLETE OUR
RESOURCES AND TO MAKE US
UNWILLING AND POSSIBLY UNABLE TO
FOLLOW THROUGH WITH THE AIR
CAMPAIGN IN LIBYA OR TO BECOME
MORE ENGAGED IN SYRIA.
I THINK THAT IF WE WERE ABLE TO
TAKE AND SURMOUNT ONE HURDLE AT
A TIME WE'D HAVE A BETTER CHANCE
OF SUCCEEDING.
TAKING ON A NUMBER OF
COMMITMENTS AND MINIMIZING THE
COMMITMENTS TO ALL OF THEM IS A
FORMULA FOR JUST AN EVER
ACCUMULATING SERIES OF CRISES.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE IS THE
ARGUMENT THAT THE WORLD IS JUST
A LOT MORE COMPLICATED NOW, THAT
YOU HAVE CRISES EXPLODING ALL
THE TIME?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THE 90'S IS
NOW THOUGHT OF AS A GOLDEN ERA
BUT REALLY WE FACED AS MANY
CHALLENGES AS WE DO TODAY.
I THINK THE DIFFERENCE IS THE
ADMINISTRATIONS THEN WERE
SUCCESSFUL IN SUCCESSFULLY
ADDRESSING EACH OF THESE RATHER
THAN ALLOWING THEM TO
ACCUMULATE.
AND THAT'S THE DIFFICULTY WITH
MAKING MINIMAL COMMITMENTS THAT
PREVENT PROBLEMS FROM BOILING
OVER BUT DON'T RESOLVE THEM, AND
SO EVENTUALLY AS PROBABLY YOU
SIMPLY BEGIN ACCUMULATING MORE
AND MORE PROBLEMS UNTIL YOU ARE
AT THE POINT YOU DON'T HAVE THE
RESOURCES OR THE TIME AND
ATTENTION TO ACTUALLY TURN AND
SOLVE ANY ONE OF THEM.
>> Reporter: AMBASSADOR DOBBINS,
THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: NOW WE REMEMBER A
SULTRY SYMBOL OF OLD HOLLYWOOD
GLAMOUR, LAUREN BACALL.
KNOWN FOR HER STRONG PRESENCE ON
SCREEN AND FAMOUS ROMANCES OFF
CAMERA.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR LOOK AT
HER WORK AND LIFE.
ANN HORNADAY IS A FILM CRITIC
FOR THE WASHINGTON POST AND
JOINS ME NOW.
>>> WHAT'S INTERESTING ABOUT
THAT FIRST PERFORMANCE FOR ME IS
IT SEEMS TO START WITH A KIND OF
HOLLYWOOD CONSTRUCT, THAT FAMOUS
DIRECTOR HOWARD HAWKS LOOKING
FOR, TRYING TO SHAPE A TYPE, BUT
LAUREN BACALL MANAGES TO MAKE IT
MORE THAN THAT, RIGHT?
>> OH, IT'S MYTHIC IN ALL OF ITS
CONTOURS BECAUSE, YOU'RE RIGHT,
IT WAS THAT KIND OF STRAIGHT
FROM STRAUS NARRATIVE, YOU KNOW,
GET ME THE RIGHT GIRL, AND HIS
WIFE SUGGESTED THAT HE LOOK AT
HER, AND HE DID MOLD HER.
ONE OF THE CONTRADICTIONS OF HER
CAREER IS THAT SHE DID COME TO
PERSONIFY THIS IDEAL OF
INDEPENDENCE AND FLINTINESS
UNDERNEATH THIS AMAZING PANTHER'
LIKE SENSUALITY, AND A LOT OF
THAT WAS CREATED BY HAWKS.
HE WAS THE ONE WHO SUGGESTED SHE
LOWER HER VOICE THAT SHE
EXERCISE EVERYDAY TO LOWER.
HE WAS THE ONE WHO HELPED HER
PERFECT THE LOOK.
SO VERY MUCH A COLLABORATION.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT WHAT DEFINES
HER AS AN ACTRESS, CAN YOU
COMPARE THE IDEA OF GLAMOUR AND
STRENGTH IN WOMEN THEN AND
TODAY?
>> WELL, IT'S SO INTERESTING,
TOO, THAT WE ARE NOW KIND OF IN
THE SEASON OF THESE YOUNG FEMALE
HEROINES, PEOPLE LIKE SCARLET
JOHANSSON LEADING FILMS AND
PROJECTING THIS PERSONA OF
TOUGHNESS.
BUT UNLIKE LAUREN BACALL, THEY
HAVE TO DO IT THROUGH ACTION.
THERE'S A NEW PARADIGM OF A
WOMAN'S CAREER WHICH IS SORT OF
TENT POLED OR BALANCED BY THESE
ACTION FILMS AND THEN BY THE
MORE SUBTLE CHARACTER STUDIES.
SHE WAS ABLE TO DO THIS IN THESE
VERY SOPHISTICATED DRAMAS WHICH
HAVE NOT AGED ONE BIT.
IF YOU WATCHED "TO HAVE AND HAVE
NOT" OR "KEY LARGO," THEY'RE NOT
DATED, THEY'RE OF THE MOMENT.
SO I THINK IT SAYS A LOT ABOUT A
19-YEAR-OLD GIRL CAN BE THAT
MATURE WAS ALLOWED TO BE AND IT
WASN'T EVEN THOUGHT TWICE ABOUT
THAT SHE COULD PROJECT THAT KIND
OF MATURITY IN HER SCREEN DEBUT.
>> Brown: SHE, OF COURSE, IS
FOREVER TIED TO BOGART.
SHE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT.
IF I READ HER RIGHT, AT SOME
TIMES SHE SEEMED A LITTLE
ANNOYED BY THAT AND OTHER TIMES
SHE HER SELF, AS WE SAW IN THE
OSCAR SPEECH, SHE EMBRACED IT.
>> RIGHT.
AND AS DAVID THOMPSON OBSERVED
IN "THE WASHINGTON POST"
OBITUARY TODAY, THAT WAS ANOTHER
PART OF THAT MYTH WAS THAT WE
GOT TO WATCH THEM FALL IN LOVE
ON SCREEN AND REALLY FALL IN
LOVE.
IT WAS OBVIOUSLY CAPITALIZED ON
BY THE STUDIO, PUBLICITY PEOPLE.
EVERYONE KNEW WHAT WAS GOING ON
AND SAW THE MARKETING POTENTIAL
IN IT, BUT IT WAS GENUINE, AND
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN EVERY DAY.
SO THAT WAS ANOTHER LAYER OF
THAT HOLLYWOOD NARRATIVE KIND OF
WEAVING ITS WAY THROUGH HER REAL
LIFE.
>> Brown: A REAL LIFE, A BIG
RIFE, ON THE SCREEN, ON THE PAGE
AND THE STAGE AND A CELEBRITY
FOR DECADES.
>> INDEED.
I ALSO WANT TO COMMEND HER,
ESPECIALLY LATER IN HER CAREER,
SHE WENT OUT OF HER WAY TO WORK
WITH INTERESTING EMERGING
DIRECTORS.
SHE DID AN INCREDIBLE JOB IN A
LITTLE MOVIE CALLED "BIRTH"
JONATHAN GLAZER DIRECTED A FEW
YEARS AGO.
HE LATELY WORKED WITH SCARLETT
JOHANSSON.
SO IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SO EASY
FOR HER TO SIT BACK ON HER
LAURELS BUT SHE SOUGHT OUT
DEMANDING MATERIAL AND
CHALLENGING DIRECTORS.
>> Brown: THE LIFE AND LEGEND
OF LAUREN BACALL.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Ifill: BACK WITH A LOOK TO
THE RISK OF THE WATER YOU
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK WITH A
LOOK AT RISKS TO THE WATER YOU
DRINK.
BUT FIRST, IT'S PLEDGE WEEK ON
PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE STATE OF OUR DRINKING WATER
AND HOW TWO MAJOR PROBLEMS IN
AMERICAN CITIES THESE PAST FEW
MONTHS ARE CALLING NEW ATTENTION
TO CONCERNS OVER SUPPLY AND
PROTECTION.
HARI SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS HAS OUR CONVERSATION.
>> Reporter: THE MOST RECENT
CASE, TOLEDO, OHIO, WHERE
CONTAMINATION FROM AN ALGAE
BLOOM IN LAKE ERIE TEMPORARILY
MADE THE WATER SUPPLY UNSAFE FOR
400,000 PEOPLE AND STIRRED NEW
WORRIES THROUGHOUT THE GREAT
LAKES REGION.
THAT FOLLOWED A MAJOR DISRUPTION
EARLIER THIS YEAR IN WEST
VIRGINIA AFTER CHEMICALS LEAKED
INTO THE ELK RIVER AROUND
CHARLESTON.
DAVID BECKMAN WROTE ABOUT THESE
MATTERS IN AN OP-ED FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES. HE'S WITH THE PISCES
FOUNDATION, AN ENVIRONMENTAL
PHILANTHROPY BASED IN SAN
FRANCISCO AND JOINS ME NOW.
SO, MR. BECKMAN, I KNOW THAT
WE'RE BETTER OFF THAN
800 MILLION PEOPLE OR SO ON THE
PLANET WHO DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO
CLEAN DRINKING WATER ON A DAILY
BASIS BUT WHAT DO THESE TWO
EVENTS START TO MAKE YOU THINK
ABOUT?
>> WELL, HARI, THEY MAKE ME
THINK ABOUT THE FACT THAT WHILE
WE'VE COME A GREAT DISTANCE IN
TERMS OF WATER IN THE UNITED
STATES SINCE THE EARLY 1970s
AND HAD RIVERS CATCHING ON FIRE
THAT WATER POLLUTION IS NOT A
SET IT AND FORGET IT SITUATION,
AND WE HAVE TO BE COGNIZANT ALL
THE TIME AND VIGILANT TO ADDRESS
NEW THREATS THAT COME ON THE
HORIZON SO THAT WE CAN CONTINUE
TO ENJOY SAFE AND RELIABLE
DRINKING WATER AND CLEAN LAKES
AND RIVERS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHERE ARE THE
LARGEST CONCERN?
WE DON'T HAVE RIVERS CATCHING ON
FIRE AND THERE WERE TWO
DIFFERENT CAUSES TO THE
INCIDENTS IN OHIO AND
WEST VIRGINIA.
WAS IT ABOUT INDUSTRY, RUNOFF IN
CITIES?
>> RIGHT.
THE TWO SITUATIONS ONE IN
WEST VIRGINIA AND ONE IN TOLEDO
ARE DIFFERENT IN MANY RESPECTS,
BUT ONE OF THE COMMON THREADS
BETWEEN THEM IS SOURCE WATER IS
FOR DRINKING WATER.
UPSTREAM, CITIES NEED BETTER
PROTECTION, WHETHER THAT'S
RUNOFF WHICH IS INCREASINGLY A
PROBLEM IN THE U.S. BOTH FROM
CITIES AND FROM AGRICULTURE OR
IT'S JUST BETTER ENFORCEMENT AND
BETTER UPGRADING OF THE EXISTING
SYSTEM, SAY THAT PROTECTS
STORAGE TANKS LIKE THE ONE THAT
LEAKED IN WEST VIRGINIA.
WE NEED TO CONTINUE TO INVEST IN
BETTER APPROACHES AND A MORE
INTEGRATED VIEW OF WATER, I
THINK, IS REALLY NECESSARY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
REGULATORY STRUCTURE.
HOW MUCH IS FEDERAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND HOW MUCH THE
STATES'?
>> SURFACE WATER PRORKS TEAKS OF
RIVERS, LAKES AND DRINKING WATER
ARE A COMBINATION OF FEDERAL,
STATE RULES AND, IN SOME CASES,
WITH DRINKING WATER, LOCAL
AGENCIES, STATE AGENCIES
TYPICALLY PROVIDE DRINKING WATER
IN MUCH OF THE COUNTRY.
SO IT'S AN INTEGRATED SYSTEM OF
STATE, FEDERAL AND LOCAL EFFORTS
AND ALL OF THAT HAS TO FIT WELL
TOGETHER.
THE SITUATIONS WE'VE SEEN
RECENTLY, I THINK WE'RE REMINDED
OF THE FACT THAT RUNOFF
PARTICULARLY IS SOMETHING THAT
NEEDS GREATER ATTENTION.
THAT'S NOT A PART OF THE
REGULATORY SYSTEM TO THE SAME
DEGREE AS FACTORIES AND SEWAGE
TREATMENT PLANTS HAVE BEEN.
WE'VE DEALT WITH THE INDUSTRIAL
SOURCES MUCH BETTER THAN SOME OF
THE RUNOFF SOURCES NOW CAUSING
TROUBLE AND THAT'S REALLY WHERE
I THINK ATTENTION NEEDS TO BE
FOCUSED IN THE YEARS TO COME.
>> HOW DO WE PAY FOR IT?
SOME OF THE NUMBERS YOU HAD IN
YOUR OP-ED PIECE WERE SIZABLE.
>> THOSE ARE E.P.A. NUMBERS.
THEY MAY BE A LITTLE LOWER OR A
BIT HIGHER, BUT WE'RE TALKING OF
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
OVER A 20-YEAR PERIOD, SO WE
DEFINITELY NEED NEW FINANCING
MECHANISMS.
MORE THAN ANYTHING, WE NEED TO
MAKE INVESTMENTS THAT HAVE
MULTIPLE BENEFITS.
TRADITIONALLY WITH WATER IN THE
U.S., WE'VE MADE WATER QUALITY
INVESTMENTS TO PROTECT THE
RIVER.
THE RULES DIDN'T OFTEN TO
REQUIRE US TO THINK ABOUT WHAT
ABOUT THE DRINKING WATER SOURCE,
OR SOURCE WATER PROTECTION OR
HOW ABOUT GREEN CITIES THAT
MIGHT NEED IMPROVEMENT AT THE
SAME TIME?
AND THERE ARE NEW APPROACHES,
LIKE, FOR EXAMPLE, GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT I MENTIONED
IN THE PIECE WHICH HAVE THE
EFFECT OF MAKING URBAN
LANDSCAPES FUNCTION FROM A WATER
PERSPECTIVE, MORE LIKE NATURAL
LANDSCAPES, THEY GREEN CITIES
WHILE PROTECTING OUR DRINKING
WATER ANDUR WATER AND IT'S
SMART INVESTMENTS THAT WILL MAKE
IT EASIER TO ACCOMPLISH THE
GOALS WE HAVE FOR SAFE WATER.
>> BUT IT'S OFTEN DIFFICULT TO
GET THOSE IDEAS THROUGH A
CONGRESS THAT HAVE TO MAKE VERY
TOUGH CHOICES ABOUT WHERE TO
SPEND OUR FUNDS.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS,
INCREASINGLY, THE FEDERAL
PICTURE IS ONLY PART OF IT.
THERE IS A REAL MOVEMENT AT THE
LOCAL LEVEL AND CITIES TO
ADDRESS THESE ISSUES IN PART BY
MAKING INVESTMENTS THAT PROTECT
OUR DRINKING WATER SOURCES AND
SURFACE WATER SOURCESD ALSO
ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION OF THE
CITY.
THE GREEN APPROACHES THAT ADD
GREEN SPACES, PARKS, RAIN
GARDENS AND PAVEMENT, PLACES
LIKE PHILADELPHIA ARE DOING HUGE
EFFORTS OVER MULTIPLE YEARS
INVESTING OFTEN LESS THAN THEY
WOULD TO BUILD A NEW SEWAGE
TREATMENT PLANT OR TRADITIONAL
WATER TREATMENT PLANT AND
YIELDING EVEN MORE BENEFIT THAN
THEY MIGHT HAVE WITH TOLD
APPROACH.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS TO
BE ALMOST A PHILOSOPHICAL SHIFT.
THIS IS A RESOURCE PEOPLE HAVE
TAKEN FOR GRANTED THAT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS A NATURAL
RIGHT, SOMETHING VALUED AS FREE.
BUT NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
SERIOUS COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH
MAINTAINING SOMETHING THAT MOST
OF US JUST SAY, IT COMES OUT OF
THE TAP AND I CAN DRINK IT.
>> WE'RE SPOILED IN THE UNITED
STATES.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
DRINKING WATER SYSTEMS DELIVER
WATER THAT MEETS
DRINKING WATER STANDARDS.
THAT'S CALLED COMFORT.
IF YOUR TAP DOESN'T MEET THE
STANDARDS, IN TOLEDO AND
CHARLESTON -- WE HAVE MADE HUGE
INVESTMENTS, IN THE '70s,
'80s, '90s AND MORE
RECENTLY.
BUT WE HAVE TO STAY AT IT IF WE
WANT TO MAINTAIN NOT JUST
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY, BUT WATER
IS INSEN WAITED IN EVERY PART OF
THE ECONOMY.
EVERY PRODUCT WE HAVE REQUIRES
WATER IN SOME WAY OR ANOTHER.
IT'S NOT JUST AN ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUE, THOUGH FUNDAMENTALLY ONE,
IT'S ALSO A QUESTION OF WATER
RITY AND ECONOMIC SECURITY
FOR THE COUNTRY TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE DEALING WITH SUPPLY AND
QUALITY AND DOING IT IN A WAY
THAT WILL CONTINUE THE SUCCESS
THAT WE'VE HAD OVERALL AS
OPPOSED TO, YOU KNOW, FALLING
BACKWARD.
>> Sreenivasan: DAVID BECKMAN
FROM THE PISCES FOUNDATION,
SAN FRANCISCO, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID PRESIDENT
OBAMA MAY DECIDE WITHIN DAYS ON
NEW MOVES TO RESCUE THOUSANDS OF
REFUGEES IN NORTHERN IRAQ.
HAMAS ACCEPTED AN EXTENSION OF A
TRUCE WITH ISRAEL.
BUT SEVERAL ROCKETS WERE FIRED
FROM GAZA, PROMPTING THE ISRAEL
MILITARY TO STRIKE TARGETS THERE
IN RESPONSE.
AND AUTHORITIES IN FERGUSON,
MISSOURI, IN A BID TO CURB
VIOLENCE, URGED AN END TO
NIGHT-TIME PROTESTS OVER THE
POLICE SHOOTING OF A BLACK
TEENAGER.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, LULLABIES ARE
MEANT TO COMFORT AND HUSH A
CHILD INTO BLISSFUL SLEEP.
SO WHY DO SO MANY OF THEM HAVE
SUCH MELANCHOLY LYRICS?
AND DOES IT REALLY MATTER?
WE LOOK INTO THE SCIENCE OF
SOOTHING, AND WHY BABIES RESPOND
TO A MOTHER'S SONG, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT ON
THURSDAY, WE EXAMINE AN
ENGINEERING AND ECONOMIC MARVEL
AS THE PANAMA CANAL TURNS 100.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.